#summary Gnizr architecture and key components described

This document describes the software architecture of gnizr. Developers who are interested to write programs against gnizr API should study this document. Technical details on how to setup a gnizr build environment can be found in ProgrammingWithGnizr.

= Architecture =

[http://www.flickr.com/photos/14804582@N08/2100914677/ http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2245/2100914677_3344f3e85d.jpg]

= Database Model =

In gnizr, all persistent data is stored in MySQL. This section describes the database model of gnizr. 

This model is used in the following releases:

  * Gnizr 2.2.0 (view: [http://fisheye2.cenqua.com/browse/gnizr/tags/gnizr-2.2.0/gnizr-db/src/main/resources/sql/gnizr_db.sql?r=12 gnizr-db.sql])
  * Gnizr 2.3.0 (view: [http://fisheye2.cenqua.com/browse/gnizr/trunk/gnizr-db/src/main/resources/sql/gnizr_db.sql?r=12      gnizr-db.sql])     

[http://www.flickr.com/photos/14804582@N08/2111269218/ http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2129/2111269218_950cf23a03.jpg]

*Note*: _click 'All Sizes' on the flickr page to fetch a high-resolution of the diagram._

=== Entity Tables ===

|| *Table Name* || *Description* ||
|| `user` || User account information ||
|| `link` || Web resource links (i.e., URL) and link properties ||
|| `tag`  || Tags (keywords) used by the users to label bookmarks ||
|| `bookmark` || Bookmarks saved by the users and bookmark properties ||
|| `folder` || Folders that users created to organize bookmarks ||

==== Table: `user` ====

{{{
CREATE TABLE `user` (
  `id` int(10) unsigned NOT NULL auto_increment,
  `username` varchar(45) NOT NULL,
  `password` varchar(45) NOT NULL,
  `fullname` varchar(100) NOT NULL,
  `created_on` datetime NOT NULL,
  `email` varchar(50) NOT NULL,
  `acct_status` int(10) unsigned zerofill NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY  (`id`),
  UNIQUE KEY `idx_username` (`username`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8 ROW_FORMAT=DYNAMIC;
}}}

  * `username` must be unique. 
  * `password` should be inserted with MD5 hash of a plain text password string -- e.g., using MySQL function `md5()`.

When gnizr database is initialized for the first time, a special user account is created. The username of this account is `gnizr`. This is the superuser of a gnizr installation. *User account `gnizr` should never be removed or renamed.*

==== Table: `link` ====
{{{
CREATE TABLE `link` (
  `id` int(10) unsigned NOT NULL auto_increment,
  `mime_type_id` int(10) unsigned default NULL,
  `url` text NOT NULL,
  `url_hash` varchar(45) NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY  (`id`),
  UNIQUE KEY `url_hash_idx` USING BTREE (`url_hash`),
  KEY `FK_link_1` (`mime_type_id`),
  CONSTRAINT `FK_link_1` FOREIGN KEY (`mime_type_id`) 
    REFERENCES `mime_type_admin` (`id`) 
    ON DELETE SET NULL ON UPDATE CASCADE
) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8 ROW_FORMAT=DYNAMIC;
}}}

  * `url_hash` is a MD5 hash of `url`
  * `mime_type_id` must exists in table `mime_type_id.id`

A `link` record describes a URL resource on the Web. Any given URL resource can only exists once in the `link` table. For example, if a URL `http://www.google.com` exists in the table, any subsequent SQL operation that tries to insert a record of the same URL will cause a DB exception to be thrown. The "uniqueness" of a URL is maintained via the column `url_hash`, which is the MD5 hash of column value `url`.

==== Table: `tag` ====

{{{
CREATE TABLE `tag` (
  `id` int(10) unsigned NOT NULL auto_increment,
  `tag` varchar(45) collate utf8_bin NOT NULL,
  `count` int(10) unsigned zerofill NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY  (`id`),
  UNIQUE KEY `idx_tag` (`tag`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8 COLLATE=utf8_bin ROW_FORMAT=DYNAMIC;
}}}

  * `tag` must be unique

This table stores the list of tags that have been used to label bookmarks. This is the central place to store all tag strings. Tables that require references to a tag should define a database column to point to `tag.id`.

The column `count` stores the total number of bookmarks that have been labeled `tag.tag`. This count reflects the number of times used _currently_. 

==== Table: `bookmark` ====
{{{
CREATE TABLE `bookmark` (
  `id` int(10) unsigned NOT NULL auto_increment,
  `user_id` int(10) unsigned NOT NULL,
  `link_id` int(10) unsigned NOT NULL,
  `title` text collate utf8_bin NOT NULL,
  `notes` text collate utf8_bin NOT NULL,
  `created_on` datetime NOT NULL,
  `last_updated` datetime NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY  (`id`),
  UNIQUE KEY `bookmark_user_id_link_id_idx` USING BTREE (`user_id`,`link_id`),
  KEY `bookmark_user_id_idx` (`user_id`),
  KEY `bookmark_link_id` USING BTREE (`link_id`),
  KEY `bookmark_created_on_idx` (`created_on`),
  KEY `bookmark_lastup_idx` (`last_updated`),
  CONSTRAINT `FK_bookmark_1` FOREIGN KEY (`user_id`) 
    REFERENCES `user` (`id`) 
    ON DELETE CASCADE ON UPDATE CASCADE,
  CONSTRAINT `FK_bookmark_2` FOREIGN KEY (`link_id`) 
    REFERENCES `link` (`id`) 
    ON DELETE CASCADE ON UPDATE CASCADE
) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8 COLLATE=utf8_bin ROW_FORMAT=DYNAMIC;
}}}

  * Foreign key: `bookmark.user_id => user.id`
    * Deleting an existing user record will also delete all bookmarks saved by the user
    * Updating the ID of the user will also update the referenced user ID in bookmarks saved by the user.
  * Foreign key: `bookmark.link_id => link.id`
    * Deleting an existing link record will also delete all bookmarks that reference this link
    * Updating the ID of the link record will also update which referenced by the bookmarks.

Bookmarks are URL resources saved by the users. Unlike records in the `link` table, which only describe the intrinsic property of URL, records in the `bookmark` table adds a relationship between `user` and `link`.

A pair `bookmark.user_id` and `bookmark.link_id` defines a URL being saved by a user. A given user can only have one bookmark for a given URL. Different users can have their own bookmarks of the same URL. 

==== Table: `folder` ====
{{{
CREATE TABLE `folder` (
  `id` int(10) unsigned NOT NULL auto_increment,
  `folder_name` varchar(45) collate utf8_bin NOT NULL,
  `owner_id` int(10) unsigned NOT NULL,
  `description` text collate utf8_bin NOT NULL,
  `last_updated` datetime NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY  (`id`),
  UNIQUE KEY `folder_owner_folder_idx` USING BTREE (`folder_name`,`owner_id`),
  KEY `FK_folder_admin_1` (`owner_id`),
  CONSTRAINT `FK_folder_admin_1` FOREIGN KEY (`owner_id`) 
    REFERENCES `user` (`id`) 
    ON DELETE CASCADE ON UPDATE CASCADE
) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8 COLLATE=utf8_bin;
}}}

  * Pair `folder_name` and `owner_id` must be unique
  * Foreign key: `folder.owner_id => user.id`
    * Deleting an existing user record will also delete all folders created by this user.
    * Updating the ID of an existing user record will also update which referenced by the folders.

Users can organize their saved bookmarks using folders. This table stores information about user-created folders. Folder names may be any non-empty strings. Some folder names have special purpose. 

Special folder names:
|| `_my_` || the default folder in which all new bookmarks will be saved. This folder corresponds to the "My Bookmarks" folder in the web application.||
|| `_import_`|| the default folder in which all new bookmarks saved via RSS crawling will be saved. This folder corresponds to the "My RSS Imports" folder in the web application.||

  
   