#summary Success stories of gnizr
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

This page lists the success stories of gnizr. If you have good experience with gnizr and would like to share your stories with the community, post them in the comment section of this page or email them to [mailto:gnizr.contact@gmail.com gnizr.contact@gmail.com].

Drop us a note if you want to add your organization's name to the *Who's Using gnizr* section.

= Success Stories =

Dr. Harry Chen says:

  Gnizr is an excellent tool for education. When teaching the [http://socialwebtechnologies.blogspot.com Social Web Technologies] course, I installed a copy of gnizr behind the eBiquity Research Group's firewall and used the software share bookmarks with students in the class. 

  I also used gnizr in a [http://groups.google.com/group/umbc-cmsc-socialwebtech-class/web/group-project-home a group programming project] to teach students Web application development and open source project management. The process of hacking gnizr code and its underlying technologies -- !WebWork, Freemarker, Spring, XML and Maven, has given students the opportunity to experiment with the  real-world software development process and team collaboration.

  Web application development is a complex process. Without using an open source software like gnizr, it will be difficult to develop a hands-on Computer Science project that prepares students for their real-world challenges. Furthermore, because gnizr is free and open source, students with some innovation and luck maybe able to turn out the next "killer" social web application, like Facebook and Del.icio.us.
  

= Who Is Using gnizr =

  * [http://www.imagemattersllc.com Image Matters LLC] -- we eat our own dog food!
  * [http://socialwebtechnologies.blogspot.com/ Social Web Technologies course at UMBC]